My Weird School #1

Dan Gutman
Pictures by Jim Paillot
                           To Emma

Contents
1 I Hate School! 1
2 Dumb Miss Daisy and Principal Klutz 7
3 How to Spell Read 20
4 Miss Daisy Is Crazy! 25
5 The Most Genius Idea! 33
6 What Do You Want to Be? 45
7 Bonbons and Footballs 51
8 A Lot of Books! 59
9 Put Those Books Away 64
10 Football Players Are Really Dumb 70
11 We Rule the School! 77
12 Poor Miss Daisy 81
About the Author and the Illustrator Credits
Cover
Copyright
About the Publisher


1 I Hate School! 
“My name is A.J. I like football and video games, and I hate school.” Our teacher, Miss Daisy, was taking attendance. It was the first day of second grade. Miss Daisy told everyone in the class to stand up, say our name, and say something about ourself.
All the kids laughed when I said I hated school. But there was nothing funny about it. I have learned a lot in my eight years. One thing I learned is that there is no reason why kids should have to go to school.
If you ask me, kids can learn all we need to learn by watching TV. You can learn important information like which breakfast cereal tastes best and what toys you should buy and which shampoo leaves your hair the shiniest. This is stuff that we’ll need to know when we grow up.
School is just this dumb thing that grown-ups thought up so they wouldn’t have to pay for baby-sitters. When I grow up and have children of my own, I won’t make them go to school. They can just ride their bikes and play football and video games all day. They’ll be happy, and they’ll think I’m the greatest father in the world.
But for now, I wanted to let my new teacher, Miss Daisy, know from the very start how I felt about school.
“You know what, A.J.?” Miss Daisy said, “I hate school too.”
“You do?”
We all stared at Miss Daisy. I thought teachers loved school. If they didn’t love school, why did they become teachers?
Why would they ever want to go to a school as a grown-up? I know that when I’m a grown-up, I’m not going to go any- where near a school.
“Sure I hate school,” Miss Daisy contin- ued. “If I didn’t have to be here teaching you, I could be home sitting on my com- fortable couch, watching TV and eating bonbons.”
“Wow!” we all said.
“What’s a bonbon?” asked Ryan, a kid with black sneakers who was sitting next to me.
“Bonbons are these wonderful choco- late treats,” Miss Daisy told us. “They’re about the size of a large acorn, and you can pop the whole thing right in your mouth so you don’t need a napkin. I could eat a whole box of bonbons in one sitting.”
                                  
“They sound delicious!” said Andrea Young, a girl with curly brown hair. She was sitting up real straight in the front of the class with her hands folded like they were attached to each other.
Miss Daisy seemed like a pretty cool lady, for a teacher. Anybody who hated school and liked to sit around watching TV and eating chocolate treats was okay by me.
Me and Miss Daisy had a lot in common. Maybe going to school would- n’t be so terrible after all.

2 Dumb Miss Daisy and Principal Klutz
Miss Daisy said it was time for us to clear off our desks and see how much we knew about arithmetic. Ugh!
“If I gave you fifty-eight apples and Principal Klutz took twenty-eight of them away,” Miss Daisy asked, “how many apples would you have left? A.J.?”
“Who cares how many apples you would have left?” I said. “I hate apples. If you ask me, you and Principal Klutz can take all the apples away and it wouldn’t bother me one bit.”
“You would have thirty apples,” said that girl Andrea Young in the front of the class. She had a big smile on her face, like she had just opened all her birthday pres- ents. Andrea Young thinks she’s so smart.
“I hate arithmetic,” I announced.
“You know what?” Miss Daisy said. “I hate arithmetic too!”
“You do?” we all said.
“Sure! I don’t even know what you get if you multi-ply four times four.”
“You don’t?”
“I have no idea,” Miss Daisy said,
scratching her head and wrinkling up her forehead like she was trying to figure it out. “Maybe one of you kids can explain it to me?”
Boy, Miss Daisy was really dumb! Even I know what you get when you multiply four times four. But that smarty-pants-I- know-everything-girl Andrea Young beat me to it and got called on first.
“If you put four crayons in a row,” she told Miss Daisy as she put a bunch of crayons on the top of her desk, “and you make four rows of four crayons, you’ll have sixteen crayons. See?” Then she counted the crayons from one to sixteen.
Miss Daisy looked at the crayons on Andrea’s desk. She had a puz- zled look on her face.
“I’m not sure I understand,” she said.
“Can somebody else explain it to me?” Michael Robinson, this kid wearing a red T-shirt with a dirt bike on it, explained four times four again, using pencils. He had sixteen pencils on his desk, in four rows of four pencils. Miss Daisy still had a look on her face like she didn’t under-
stand.
“What would happen if you subtracted half of the pencils?” she asked.
Michael took away two of the rows of pencils and put them in his pencil box.
“Then you would have eight pencils!” we all said.
Andrea Young added, “Half of sixteen is eight.”
Miss Daisy wrinkled up her forehead until it was almost like an accordion. She still didn’t get it!
She started counting the pencils on Michael’s desk out loud and using her fingers. She got it all wrong. We gathered around Michael’s desk and tried to explain to Miss Daisy how to add, sub- tract, multiply, and divide numbers using the pencils.
Nothing worked. Miss Daisy had to be the dumbest teacher in the history of the world! No matter how many times we tried to explain, she kept shaking her head.
“I’m sorry,” she said. “It will take me a while to understand arithmetic. Maybe you can explain it to me more tomorrow. For now we have to clean off our desks because Principal Klutz is going to come in and talk to us.”
I know all about principals. My friend Billy from around the corner, who was in second grade last year, told me that the principal is like the king of the school. He runs everything.
Billy says that if you break the rules, you have to go to the principal’s office, which is in a dungeon down in the basement. Kids in the dungeon get locked up and are forced to listen to their parents’ old CDs for hours. It must be horrible.
Miss Daisy told us to be on our best behavior so Principal Klutz would see how mature we were. Finally he walked into our room.
“Welcome to the second grade,” he said cheerfully. “I’m sure we are all going to have a wonderful year together.”
Principal Klutz said a lot of stuff about the rules of the school. We’re not allowed to run in the halls, and we’re not allowed to chew gum. Stuff like that.
But I wasn’t listening very closely because I kept staring at his head. He had no hair at all! I mean none! His head looked like a giant egg.
When Principal Klutz was all done telling us the rules of the school, he asked if anybody had any questions about what he had said.
“Did all your hair fall out of your head,” I asked, “or did you cut it off?” Everybody laughed, even though I didn’t say anything funny. Miss Daisy looked at me with a mean face.
“Actually, it was both,” Principal Klutz replied with a chuckle. “Almost all of my hair fell out on its own, so I decided to shave the rest of it off.”
“That’s the saddest story I ever heard!” said this girl named Emily, and she burst into tears.
“Don’t feel bad,” Principal Klutz said. “It could have been a lot worse.”
“How?” sniffled Emily.
“Well, at least my brain didn’t fall out of my head!”
We all laughed, even Emily. Principal Klutz was a pretty funny guy, for a princi- pal.
“Any other questions?”
“Do you have a dungeon down in the basement where you put the bad kids?” I asked.
“Actually, the dungeon is on the third floor,” Principal Klutz replied.
Nobody laughed this time. He quickly told us that he was just making a joke and that he didn’t even have a dungeon at all.
Principal Klutz must have felt bad that we didn’t think his joke was funny, because he invited us all up to the front of the room to touch his bald head.
We did, and that made everybody feel a lot better.
Principal Klutz seemed nice, but a lot of people seem nice when you first meet them. Then later you find out that they are evil villains who plan to take over the world.
I bet he was lying about the dungeon.

3 How to Spell Read
Before school started, my mother told me that second grade was the most interesting grade because this was the year that I would be able to read chap- ter books all by myself. I already knew how to read, even though I had tried very hard not to learn.
You see, my friend Billy told me that you really don’t have to know how to read. Billy says that when you grow up and make lots of money, you can pay people to read for you. That sounded good to me.
“I hate reading,” I announced when Miss Daisy passed out some spelling worksheets.
“Me too!” agreed Miss Daisy.
“You do?” we all asked.
“Yup,” she said. “I can’t read a word.” “You can’t?”
“Nope.”
“You can’t even spell the word read?”
Michael Robinson asked.
“I don’t have a clue,” she said, scratch- ing her head the same way she did when she told us she didn’t know how to mul- tiply four times four.
“Just sound it out, Miss Daisy!” Andrea suggested.
“R-e-e-d?” Miss Daisy said. “No!” we all shouted.
“I give up,” she said. “Do any of you know how to spell the word read?”
“R-e-a-d,” we all chanted.
“Wow! I didn’t know that!” marveled Miss Daisy. “You have taught me a lot today.”
“How did you get to teach second grade if you don’t even know how to spell read?” asked Ryan.
“Well, I figured that second graders don’t know how to spell very well, so it wouldn’t matter whether or not I could spell.”
“I know how to spell lots of hard words,” Andrea Young announced.
“Me too,” everybody else said.
“Really?” Miss Daisy said. “Like what?”
Everybody started shouting out words and how to spell them, but Miss Daisy stopped us and made us take turns. She had each of us go up to the chalkboard and write three words we knew.
I wrote tonight, writing, and McDona ld’s.
By the time we were done, the whole chalkboard was filled with words. There wasn’t even any room left for more.
“Wow!” Miss Daisy said. “You kids have taught me so much this morning. I’m really glad I decided to become a teacher.”

4 Miss Daisy Is Crazy! 
In the lunchroom I opened my lunchbox and saw that my mom had packed me a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. I traded it with Michael Robinson for his potato chips. Everybody was talking about Miss Daisy.
“Miss Daisy is crazy,” Ryan said. 
“She’s the weirdest teacher I ever had,” said Emily. “She can’t read, she can’t write, and she can’t even do arithmetic. What kind of a teacher is that?”
“A bad one,” I said.
“Hey, I just thought of something,” Michael Robinson was able to say even though his mouth was filled with peanut butter. “Do you think that maybe Miss Daisy isn’t really a teacher at all?”
“What do you mean?” Ryan asked.
“Maybe she’s an impostor,” said Andrea.
“An impostor? What’s that?” I asked. “Somebody who imposts?”
“No, silly. An impostor is somebody who pretends to be somebody else,” Andrea explained. “She might be a fake teacher.”
“Maybe Miss Daisy is really a jewel thief or a bank robber,” I guessed. “Maybe she snuck into the school and is hiding so the police won’t catch her.”
“I think you’re the one who’s crazy.” Andrea giggled, choking on her milk.
But what if Miss Daisy was a bank robber? Or she could be a horse thief or a cattle rustler or somebody who parks where there is a yellow line on the curb. My head was starting to fill with all kinds of awful things Miss Daisy could be.
“Maybe Miss Daisy kidnapped our real teacher and is holding her for ransom!” I suggested.
“Wow, you think so?” Emily asked, looking all scared.
“What’s ransom?” asked Ryan.
“My mom tells me I’m handsome,” Michael Robinson claimed.
“Not handsome! Ransom!” said Andrea. “I don’t know what it is, but whenever somebody is kidnapped, they get held for it.”
“In cartoons people who get kidnapped are always tied up to railroad tracks,” I reminded everybody. “Maybe our real teacher is tied up to some railroad tracks right now!”
“We’ve got to save her!” said Emily, and she went running out of the lunchroom.
“Wait a minute,” said Michael Robinson. “That doesn’t make sense. If Miss Daisy can’t even read or do arithmetic, how is she going to be able to kidnap a teacher and tie her to railroad tracks?”
“She doesn’t look like a kidnapper to me,” Ryan said.
“We should tell Principal Klutz,” said Andrea. “He’ll know what to do.”
“No!” I shouted. “Don’t you see how good we have it? If we tell Principal Klutz how dumb Miss Daisy is, he will fire her and replace her with a real teacher. A real teacher who knows reading and writing and arithmetic. We’ll have to learn all that stuff. You don’t want that, do you?”
“No way!” said Michael Robinson.
“I don’t care if she is an impostor or a bank robber or a kidnapper,” I said. “I like her. I say we keep her.”
“Me too,” Michael Robinson agreed. “I think she’s cool.”
“Okay, let’s not tell anybody,” I said. “It will be our little secret.”
We all agreed. Our lips would be sealed. But not sealed with glue or anything. That would be gross.

5 The Most Genius Idea! 
After lunch we had recess, which means we get to go out in the playground and run around. Miss Daisy said we needed to burn off energy.
“Now this is more my style,” I announced when we got outside. I made a beeline for the monkey bars. Then me and some other kids hit the swings. After that all the boys had a contest to see who could spin around in circles the longest without throwing up. Michael Robinson won.
Then we all sat down on the grass.
Even though Miss Daisy was pretty cool, we all agreed that we hated school. We made a promise to one another that we would hate school for- ever, even if we changed our minds and decided that we liked school. That’s when Ryan came up with the most genius idea in the history of the world.
This was his idea: We should buy the school.
Ryan told us that his father worked for this big company and that once his father’s company bought some other company just like you would go into a store and buy a candy bar. Ryan said it happens all the time. He said he didn’t see any reason why we couldn’t buy the school just like that.
“If we bought the school, what would we do with it?” Michael Robinson asked.
“We could do anything we want with it. We’d own it.”
“Could we turn it into a video-game arcade?” I asked.
“Sure, why not? Instead of teaching reading and writing and arithmetic, we could teach kids how to play video games.” “And we could ride skateboards in the hallways?” asked Michael Robinson. “Sure we could,” Ryan said, “if we owned it.”
I got all excited, because if there’s one thing that I like to do almost as much as playing football, it’s playing video games.
Oh, and riding skateboards. I started emptying out my pockets. I had a nickel, three pennies, and a LifeSaver. The other boys emptied their pockets too. We sepa- rated all the pennies, nickels, and dimes into little piles. Then we added up all the money. We had one dollar and thirty-two cents.
“Wow!” Michael Robinson said. “That’s a lot of money!”
“I don’t think it’s enough to buy a school,” said Ryan, who knew a thing or two about financial matters because his father worked for this big company.
“Well, how much do you need to buy a school?” I asked.
“Beats me,” said Ryan. “We’d better ask Miss Daisy.”
We all rushed inside after recess and asked Miss Daisy how much it would cost to buy the school.
“Gee, I don’t know,” said Miss Daisy, who didn’t seem to know much of anything. “Why do you want to buy the school?”
“We want to turn it into a video-game arcade,” I told her.
“What a great idea!” She beamed. “I love video games. There are so many schools and so few video-game arcades. It makes perfect sense to turn some of those schools into video-game arcades. I’ll arrange a meeting with Mr. Klutz tomorrow so we can ask him if we can buy the school. But right now, we have to go to Mrs. Cooney’s office.”
Mrs. Cooney’s office is down the hall from our class. She says she’s the school nurse, but personally I think she’s a spy. I’ll tell you why. There’s this big poster on her wall that says this:
I tried to read it, and it didn’t make any sense at all. Even Andrea Young didn’t know how to read the poster, and she knows everything. I think Mrs. Cooney has created a secret code, and she’s using the poster to send mystery spy messages. I will have to keep an eye on her.
When we walked into Mrs. Cooney’s office, she had us all line up in size order. I was one of the shortest kids, so I had to stand in the front of the line. Then Mrs. Cooney told us to take off our shoes. At first I thought she didn’t want us to track mud all over her office. But then she told us that she was going to weigh and meas- ure us. Obviously she is trying to gather information about us, because that is what spies do.
My friend Billy says that the heavier you are, the smarter you are, because heavy people have bigger brains. But I think Billy just says that because he is overweight. I weighed fifty-two pounds.
Mrs. Cooney showed us this awesome ruler she has. It is made of metal and stretches out six feet long. When she presses a button, the whole thing shoots into her hand and disappears like magic. That is cool! I’ll bet she has lots of other spy tools too.
She wouldn’t let us play with her magic ruler, but Mrs. Cooney ran around measuring everything. She showed us that the bench we were sitting on was seven- teen inches high. The door to her office was thirty inches across. And her foot was twelve inches long.
“Hey, my foot is a foot!” Mrs. Cooney exclaimed.
“Aren’t all feet feet?” I asked.
“Some feet are less than a foot, and some feet are more than a foot,” she replied. “But my foot is exactly a foot.”
I had no idea what she was talking about.
Mrs. Cooney wrapped the measuring tape around her forehead and announced, “Look!
My head is almost two feet in circumfer- ence!”
I knew that circumference was the dis- tance all the way around a circle and diameter was the distance through the middle of a circle.
“What’s the diameter of your head, Mrs. Cooney?” I asked. Everybody laughed, even though I didn’t say anything funny.
“That would be hard to measure. But isn’t measuring things fun?” Mrs. Cooney asked. “I wonder how much the scale weighs.”
Mrs. Cooney started to measure and weigh more things, but Miss Daisy said we had to go back to class.

6 What Do You Want to Be? 
At the end of the day, Miss Daisy sat on the floor and we all sat around her. She told us to talk about what we want to be when we grow up.
“I want to be a veterinarian,” said Andrea Young.
“Does anyone know what the word veterinarian means?” asked Miss Daisy. “That’s somebody who doesn’t eat meat,” said Michael Robinson.
“It is not!” I said. “That’s a vegetarian. A veterinarian is somebody who fought in a war.”
“That’s a veteran,” Miss Daisy said. “Andrea, would you like to tell the class what a veterinarian does?”
“A veterinarian is an animal doctor.”
That Andrea Young thinks she knows everything. But for once, I knew she was wrong.
“Animals can’t be doctors,” I said.
Everybody laughed, even though I didn’t say anything funny. Miss Daisy said a veterinarian is a doctor who takes care of animals. That made a lot more sense than that dumb thing Andrea said. Emily was next and she said she wanted to grow up and become a nurse in a hospital.
“Why do you want to do that?” I asked.
“People come into hospitals all sick and injured, their arms falling off, their guts hanging out. . . .”
“A.J.!” Miss Daisy said in her serious voice.
Emily got all upset and ran out of the room crying.
“What did I say?” I asked.
“What do you want to be when you grow up, A.J.?” Miss Daisy asked.
“I’m going to be a famous football player,” I said.
“Really? And why did you choose that field?”
“Because I love football,” I said, “and if I was a football player, I wouldn’t have to read or write or do arithmetic or go to school. My friend Billy told me that football players are really dumb.”
“Your friend told you that?” said Miss Daisy.
“Yeah, Billy is really smart. He also told me that if you dig a hole deep enough, you can dig all the way to China. And if you fall into that hole, you’d fall all the way through the Earth and pop right out the other side. And you’d be moving so fast that you’d shoot all the way into outer space.”
Michael Robinson said that sounded cool. He decided that instead of becom- ing a firefighter, he wanted to become one of those hole-digging astronauts.
Emily came back into the room with a tissue. Everybody else went around in a circle saying what they wanted to be. This girl named Lindsay said she wanted to be a singer. Ryan said he wanted to be a businessman like his dad.
Andrea Young said that if she couldn’t be a veterinarian, she wanted to be a teacher like Miss Daisy. Then she gave Miss Daisy a big smile.
I hate her.

7 Bonbons and Footballs 
The next day, Miss Daisy brought in a box with ribbons on it and told us she had a surprise.
“What’s in the box?” we pleaded.
“It’s a secret.” “Pleeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeease?”
“Well, okay,” she said, opening the box. “It’s bonbons!”
Miss Daisy said she thought we might be able to use them for arithmetic prob- lems so we could learn together. She put the bonbons on the table in the front of the room. There must have been twenty or thirty of them. “Can somebody think up an arithmetic problem using bon- bons?” she asked. “Andrea?”
“If you had three bonbons in a box,” said Andrea as she put three bonbons into her pencil box, “and you had three boxes just like that, how many bonbons would you have all together?”
Miss Daisy looked at Andrea’s pencil box for a long time, counting in her head and on her fingers. Any dummy would know that three boxes with three bon- bons in each box would equal nine bon- bons. Three times three is nine. But Miss Daisy didn’t seem to know that. Finally she just opened up Andrea’s pencil box and popped the three bonbons into her mouth.
“Who cares how many bonbons I would have?” she asked. “As long as I get to eat some of them!”
Miss Daisy really needs a lot of help with arithmetic.
After she had eaten her bonbons, Miss Daisy passed out bonbons for all of us and we had a bonbon party. Then she said that was enough arithmetic for the day and asked what we wanted to talk about for the rest of our math time. “Football!” I shouted.
Miss Daisy didn’t like that I talked without raising my hand first. Personally, I don’t see what raising my hand has to do with talking. I don’t talk with my hands.
But she did let me talk, and I told her that football is just about my favoritest thing in the world and I know all about it. My dad takes me to every game of the Chargers, a professional football team.
“Maybe you can help me,” Miss Daisy said. “I always wondered how long is a football field?”
“A hundred yards,” I told her. “Anybody knows that.”
“Wow! That’s a big field. With a field that big, how can you and your father see what’s going on?”
“My dad always tries to get us seats near the fifty-yard line,” I said. “They’re the best tickets.”
“Why?” Miss Daisy asked.
“Because the fifty-yard line is right in the middle of the field.”
“Does that mean that half of a hundred yards would be fifty yards?” she asked. “Yup.”
“I see,” Miss Daisy said. “So if you know there are a hundred yards on a football field, do you know how many pennies there are in a dollar? Andrea?”
“A hundred!” hollered Andrea Young. “Just like a football field!”
“Really?” said Miss Daisy. “So if half the football field is fifty yards, how many pennies are in half a dollar?”
“Fifty!” Michael Robinson shouted.
“Because fifty is half of a hundred and fifty plus fifty makes a hundred!”
“And half of fifty must be twenty-five because two quarters is fifty cents!” added Emily.
“And four quarters makes a dollar!” Ryan exclaimed.
“And four quarters makes a football game, too!” Miss Daisy shouted, jumping up and down with excitement.
“Wait a minute,” I said. “I thought you told us we were finished with arithmetic.” “This wasn’t arithmetic,” she told us. “It was football.”
“Well, okay,” I said. “Just as long as you weren’t trying to sneak arithmetic into our conversation about football.”
“Would I do that?” Miss Daisy asked, and then she winked at me.
Sometimes it’s hard to tell if Miss Daisy is serious or not.

8 A Lot of Books! 
On Thursday Principal Klutz came into our class. He was wearing a hat, which almost made him look like a regular person who had hair on his head.
“I have to go to a meeting,” Principal Klutz told us, “but I heard that some of you second graders had something impor- tant you wanted to discuss with me.”
Miss Daisy said that I could ask my question.
“Can we buy the school?”
“Hmmm,” Principal Klutz said. “Hmmm” is what grown-ups say instead of “er” or “um” or “uh” when they don’t know what to say.
“Why do you want to buy the school?” Principal Klutz asked.
“Because we want to turn it into a video-game arcade,” I told him.
“I see,” the principal said. “Schools cost a lot of money.”
“How much?” I asked. “If you tell us how much it will cost, we’ll raise the money.”
“I’ll tell you what,” Principal Klutz said. “I can’t sell you the school, but I can rent it to you for a night. Do you know the dif- ference between buying and renting?”
Andrea Young got her hand up first, as usual.
“When you buy a video, you get to keep it forever,” she said. “If you rent it, you have to return it to the video store in a couple of days.”
“That’s right,” the principal said. “Would you be interested in renting the school for a night?”
“How much would that cost?” I asked.
“One million pages,” Principal Klutz replied.
“Huh?”
“If you kids read a million pages in books, you can turn the school into a video-game arcade for one night.”
A million pages! That sounded like a lot of books.
“How about a thousand pages?” I sug- gested.
“A million,” said Principal Klutz. “That’s my final offer. Take it or leave it.”
“Would it be okay if some of the other classes helped us out?” Miss Daisy asked. “Certainly,” Principal Klutz said. “The more the merrier. And I’ll tell you what I’m going to do. If the kids in this school read a million pages, I will come to the big video-game night dressed in a gorilla suit.”
“You’ve got a deal!” I said, rushing forward to shake Principal Klutz’s hand.
In my head I was already hatching a plan.

9 Put Those Books Away 
As soon as I got home from school, I went up to my big sister Amy’s room.
Amy is in fifth grade, so she knows lots of things.
“You’ve got to help me!” I said. “If the school reads a million pages in books, Principal Klutz will put on a gorilla suit and let us turn the school into a video- game arcade!”
“I would do anything to see that,” Amy said.
Amy knows how to work the computer really well. She helped me make posters that said LET’S TURN OUR SCHOOL INTO A VIDEO-GAME ARCADE! and LET’S TURN PRINCI- PAL KLUTZ INTO A GORILLA!
We tacked the posters up all over Main Street. Amy sent e-mails and instant mes- sages to all the kids in the fifth grade. The next morning we tacked the posters up all over school. I passed them out to the kids I saw. Mrs. Roopy, the school librar- ian, said we could put up some posters in the library. Mr. Sacco, the custodian, said we could put some up in the lunchroom and the bathrooms. Ms. Hynde, the music teacher, said we could put some up in the music room.
By the middle of the day, everyone in the school was reading like crazy! Kids were reading during lunch. Kids were reading during recess! Kids were plowing their way through books and then run- ning to the school library to ask Mrs. Roopy if they could check out more. I read a book about frogs, and I don’t even care anything about frogs.
Some of the teachers were starting to get mad, because kids were reading books when they were supposed to be doing other things.
“Please put those books away,” Miss Daisy had to tell us. “It’s time for reading.” Miss Daisy said she was sorry that she wouldn’t be able to help us very much because she didn’t know how to read. But she was nice enough to draw a big mural in the hallway with a giant thermometer on it. Every time we read a lot of pages, she would make the temperature line on the thermometer go up. At the top of the thermometer were the words One mil- lion.
Soon kids were bursting into our room and yelling, “Mrs. Biggs’s class has read another five hundred pages!” and “Miss Hasenfratz says to add another six hundred pages!” It was fun watching the temperature go up.
At the end of a week, our school had read almost a half a million pages!

10 Football Players Are Really Dumb 
“Boys and girls, today we have a very spe- cial and famous guest,” Miss Daisy said. “His name is Boomer Wiggins.”
“Wow!” was the first thing everybody said.
“Who’s he?” was the second thing everybody said.
But I knew who Boomer Wiggins was. Because Boomer Wiggins was my hero. He was the quarterback of my favorite foot- ball team, the Chargers! Wow! A real foot- ball player right in our classroom! Miss Daisy told us that Boomer Wiggins had a daughter in fourth grade, and that’s why he was spending the day at our school.
When Boomer Wiggins walked into the class, everybody gasped. He was really big and had so many muscles that they poked right against his shirt! We all crowded around him, and Boomer let us feel his arm muscles. I couldn’t even get my hands around them! Then Boomer picked up Emily with one hand!
He was amazing. Then he gave each of us a little plastic football, and he signed his name on each one.
“Does anybody have any questions?” Boomer asked.
“Do you like knocking guys on their butts?” I asked.
Everybody laughed,even though I didn’t say anything that was funny. Miss Daisy said it was “butt,” not “butts,” because a person only has one butt. But I said a butt was divided into two halves, so really it could be “butts.” Miss Daisy said that was enough of that talk. I said she shouldn’t be com- plaining because she was the one who started it.
“I don’t like knocking people down,” Boomer told us, “but sometimes we have to because it’s part of the game.”
“Mr. Wiggins,” asked Miss Daisy, “is it true that football players are really dumb?” We all gasped. I was afraid Boomer Wiggins might knock Miss Daisy on her butt.
“Excuse me?” Boomer said, like he wasn’t sure if he had heard the question. “Well, somebody once told me that if you play football, you don’t have to know how to read or write or do arithmetic or go to school.”
“Who told you that?” Boomer asked Miss Daisy.
Everybody looked at me. I slid down so that my head was almost under my desk, and I hid behind my notebook.
“Oh, a good friend of mine told me,” Miss Daisy said. “Is it true?”
“If I didn’t go to school, I never could have become a football player,” Boomer told us. “I have to read and study my playbook very carefully. I have to write letters to my fans. Every week I have to study very hard to get ready for the next game.”
“Did you go to college?” asked Miss Daisy.
“Yes,” Boomer said, “and when my foot- ball career is over, I plan to go back to school so I can become a doctor.”
“Wow!” I said. “I want to go to college someday so I can become a doctor and knock guys on their butts. I mean butt.”
Everybody laughed, even though I didn’t say anything funny. Then, to prove how smart he was, Boomer Wiggins read us a book and passed out bookmarks that said “Achieve Your Goal by Reading” on them.
Miss Daisy said that even though Boomer read the book to us, we could still add fifty-two pages to the total number of pages we’ve read.
The temperature level on the ther- mometer in the hallway kept getting higher and higher.

11 We Rule the School! 
Finally the big moment arrived. It was Andrea Young (of course!) who read the one-millionth page. We all cheered when Miss Daisy went out in the hallway and filled in the top of the thermometer all the way up to the words One million.
That Friday night, everybody in the whole school showed up at school. Can you believe it? I actually couldn’t wait to get to school . . . on the weekend! When we got there, a big banner was hanging over the front door that said WE READ A MILLION PAGES! on it. Principal Klutz was waiting for us. He was wearing a gorilla suit, just like he promised. Inside there was a table of snacks and treats and juice. Miss Daisy had brought in bonbons.
But best of all, the gym was filled wall to wall with video games!
I had never seen so many video games in my life. Families had brought in lots of TV sets, game systems, and games, and lined them up all around the gym. We could play all we wanted, and the only rule was that you had to take turns.
For the kids who didn’t like video games, there were tables of board games set up in the middle of the gym. (I think they’re called board games because you get so bored playing them.)
I played just about every video game in the gym. After a few hours of staring into screens, I had a splitting headache, my hands hurt, and I thought my eyes were going to fall out of my head.
It was the greatest night of my life.

12 Poor Miss Daisy 
     Monday at school, we had social studies. Miss Daisy said she was really sorry, but she didn’t know anything at all about social studies and that we would have to help her.
“I don’t even know the name of the first president of the United States,” she told us.
“You don’t?” we all said.
“I haven’t a clue.”
“It was George Washington!” we all shouted.
“Really?” Miss Daisy said with a wink.
“Never heard of him.”
I was beginning to suspect that Miss
Daisy might have been just pretending that she didn’t know anything all along. One day I caught her looking at a piece of paper, and her eyes were moving back and forth like she was watching a Ping- Pong game.
“Hey, you’re reading!” I said.
“I am not!” she insisted. “You know I can’t read.”
“Then how come your eyes are moving back and forth like you’re watching a Ping-Pong game?”
“I—I was just thinking about this great Ping-Pong game I saw once,” she replied. “It was great. You should have been there.”
Maybe she was joking, and maybe she wasn’t. You can never tell with Crazy Miss Daisy.
If it turns out that Miss Daisy really doesn’t know anything, I feel a little sorry for her. The kids in our school had read a million pages, and she couldn’t read one page. The kids in our class knew how to spell, and do arithmetic and social stud- ies. She hardly knew anything at all!
“Don’t feel bad, Miss Daisy,” I told her. “We’ll teach you reading, writing, and arithmetic. And we won’t tell Principal Klutz how dumb you are.” She gave me a big hug.
It will be hard work teaching Miss Daisy everything that she doesn’t know. I think that by the end of the year, if the whole class works together, we just might bring her up to second-grade level.
But it won’t be easy.

About the Author and the Illustrator Credits

DAN GUTMAN
has written many weird books for kids. Dan lives in New Jersey (a very weird place) with his weird wife and two weird children. You can visit him on his weird website at
www.dangutman.com
JIM PAILLOT is a talented but weird illustrator who lives in Arizona. He also has a weird wife and two weird children. Isn’t that weird? You can visit him on his weird website at
www.jimpaillot.com
Visit www.AuthorTracker.com for exclusive information on your favorite HarperCollins author.

Cover
Copyright
MY WEIRD SCHOOL #1: MISS DAISY IS CRAZY!. Text copyright © 2004 by Dan Gutman. Illustrations copyright © 2004 by Jim Paillot. All rights reserved under International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By payment of the required fees, you have been granted the non-exclusive, nontransferable right to access and read the text of this e-book on-screen. No part of this text may be reproduced, transmitted, down-loaded, decompiled, reverse engineered, or stored in or introduced into any information storage and retrieval system, in any form or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereinafter invented, without the express written permission of HarperCollins e-books.
Adobe Acrobat eBook Reader September 2008 ISBN 978-0-06-177821-6
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

About the Publisher

My Weird School #2
Mr. Klutz Is Nuts!

             Dan Gutman
			     Pictures by
			 Jim Paillot
HarperCollins e-books

To Emma
 
Contents
1 The Flying Principal 1 
2 Big Trouble 5 
3 The Principal Is Your Pal 9 
4 The Present 21 
5 My Big Mouth 27 
6 The Chocolate Party 35 
7 Teacher for a Day 43 
8 Mr. Klutz Puckers Up 55 
9 I Pledge Allegiance to Mr. Klutz 61
10 Mr. Klutz Is Getting Weirder 70 
11 The Last Straw 77 
12 A Hard Bargain 85 
13 Poor Mr. Klutz 91
About the Author and the Illustrator 
Credits
Cover 
Copyright
About the Publisher


1 The Flying Principal 
“Watch out!” somebody screamed.
Mr. Klutz, the principal of my school, was tearing down the sidewalk on a skateboard! It was early morning, just before the school bell was about to ring. Mr. Klutz must have built up too much speed coming down the hill. He was weaving in and around the kids and their parents, totally out of control. Most prin- cipals are really serious and dignified. They look like they were born as grown- ups! But not Mr. Klutz. He’s more like a grown-up kid. When he isn’t skateboard- ing to school, he rides his motorcycle, his scooter, or wears his in-line skates.
“Runaway principal!” some kid shouted. “Run for your lives!”
The skateboard must have hit a crack in the sidewalk, because the next thing anybody knew, Mr. Klutz was flying through the air like a superhero. Kids and their parents were diving out of his way. Dogs were running in all directions.
Mr. Klutz crash-landed in the bushes at the front of the school. Luckily he was wearing a helmet, and he had knee pads and elbow pads on over his clothes. Everybody stopped for a second, because Mr. Klutz was just lying there in the bushes without moving. We weren’t sure if he was alive.
“Good morning, Mr. Klutz,” said Mrs. Cooney, the school nurse, as she walked past.
“Good morning, Mrs. Cooney,” he replied.
“Beautiful day, isn’t it?”
“Lovely.”
Then Mr. Klutz got up, brushed himself off, and walked up the front steps, like it was totally normal for a principal to skateboard to school and crash headfirst into the bushes.
Mr. Klutz is nuts!

2 Big Trouble 
“That’s the last straw, A.J.,” my teacher, Miss Daisy, told me. “I want you to go to the principal’s office!”
“I didn’t do anything!” I protested.
My name is A.J. and I hate school. Why do we have to learn so much stuff? If you ask me, by the time you get to second grade you already know enough stuff to last you a lifetime. School is way overrated. My mom says that all eight-year-old boys have to go to school, so I guess there’s nothing I can do about it. But when I grow up, I’m going to be a profes- sional hockey player. You don’t have to know how to read or write or do math to shoot a puck into a net.
Actually, that’s what I was doing when my teacher, Miss Daisy, sent me to the principal’s office.
You see, me and my friends Michael and Ryan were playing hockey with a tennis ball during recess. We were shoot- ing the ball at a tree to score a goal. I shot one wild, and it landed over by a bunch of girls in our class.
“Ouch! That hit me!” shouted this girl named Annette. She was rubbing her leg like she had been hit by a train or some- thing. It was just a tennis ball! Annette is such a crybaby.

“Hey, A.J.!” Michael hollered. “That counts as a goal!”
“How come?” I asked. “I missed the tree.”
“Well, you did hit the puck into Annette. Get it? Annette? A net? Annette?” Well, after me and Ryan got it, we thought that was just about the funniest joke in the his- tory of the world.
Miss Daisy didn’t think it was very funny, though. She was already mad at me because I had forgotten to bring in a current-event article for the third week in a row.
That’s when she said it was the last straw and I had to go to Mr. Klutz’s office.

3 The Principal Is Your Pal 
The principal is like the king of the school. He gets to tell everybody what to do and where to go. That is cool! If I can’t be a professional hockey player when I grow up, I want to be a principal so I can boss teachers around.
My friend Billy from around the corner, who was in second grade last year, told me that principals have a dungeon down in the basement of the school where they torture kids who misbehave. I don’t know if Billy’s tell-
ing the truth or not. But one time we had gym class and we passed by this open door in the basement and there were all kinds of scary-looking things in there. Michael said he saw chains hanging from the ceiling over a chair with straps on the arms and legs, so I guess that’s what Mr. Klutz uses to torture bad kids.
I was scared. I had never been to the principal’s office before. On the way there, I stopped into the boy’s bathroom. Maybe I could dig a tunnel out of the school and escape, I thought. My friend Billy told me he saw that in a war movie once. These guys dug their way out of prison camp with a spoon. But I didn’t have a spoon. And I didn’t want to touch the floor of the bathroom anyway. Yuck!
When I got to Mr. Klutz’s office, his secretary made me sit in a chair for about a million hours. Mr. Klutz’s door was closed the whole time. I wondered if he was torturing some other kid. I didn’t hear any screams or anything.
Finally the secretary said I could go inside. I opened the door and was sur- prised to see Mr. Klutz was hanging upside down from a bar near the ceiling. He had on boots that were attached to the bar.
“What are you doing up there?” I asked.
“Oh, just hanging around,” Mr. Klutz said as he pulled himself out of his boots and jumped down onto the floor. “When the blood rushes to my head, it helps me think.”
Well, I know that blood rushing to your head doesn’t help you grow hair, because Mr. Klutz had no hair on his head at all. He was bald as a balloon. Mr. Klutz’s office looked pretty much like my dad’s office, except he had a big snowboarding poster on the wall and a foosball table in the corner. Oh, and he also had a punching bag with a face on it.
Come to think of it, it didn’t look any- thing like my dad’s office.
I kept my head down when he told me to take a seat, so he would feel sorry for me. When you get into trouble, always keep your head down, because if grown- ups feel sorry for you they won’t punish you as badly.
“Miss Daisy told me why you’re here,” Mr. Klutz said, “but I’d like to hear your side of the story.”
“Miss Daisy thinks I stole some straws,” I told him.
“What makes you think that, A.J.?”
“Well, she was all mad at me and she said, ‘That’s the last straw!’ Then she told me to go to your office. I swear I didn’t take any straws. I don’t even know where she keeps the straws.”
“I see,” Mr. Klutz said, rubbing his chin. “I thought it had something to do with a hockey game that got out of control. And there’s this little matter of forgetting to bring in current events.”
“Well, that too.”
Mr. Klutz didn’t look like he was going to torture me. In fact, he didn’t look mad at all.
“You may not believe this,” he told me, “but I was a boy once.”
“Just once?” I asked. “I’m a boy all the time.”
“No, what I mean is, I used to be young like you.”
“I’ll bet you were really good in school,” I said.
“No, actually, it was just the opposite,” the principal told me. “I didn’t like school at all, and I wasn’t a very good student.”
“Really?” I figured that anybody who grew up to be a principal must have loved school as a kid. Why else would you want to hang around a school all day as a grown-up? Except maybe to boss teachers around.
“When I was a boy, I could never sit still,” Mr. Klutz said. “I wanted to run around all the time. I didn’t have the motivation to do my schoolwork. Do you know what motivation is, A.J.?”
“It’s like a motor inside you that makes you want to do stuff,” I said. “That’s why it’s called motor-vation.”
“I guess you could say that,” Mr. Klutz said. “Sometimes my mother would give me a little reward if I did a good job on my homework. A piece of candy, for instance. You see, while I didn’t like school, I certainly did like candy. So I would try hard in school in order to get the candy. Does that make sense to you?”
“Well, sure.”
“A.J., if I were to give you some candy, do you think it might help you remem- ber to bring in your current event next time?”
“My parents told me never to take candy from strangers,” I told him.
“I’m not a stranger,” Mr. Klutz said. “Did you ever hear anyone say ‘your principal is your pal’? If you need to spell the word principal, you can always remember, your principal is your p-a-l. Get it?”
“Well, if you put it that way, I suppose I could take some candy.”
Mr. Klutz reached into his desk drawer and pulled out a chocolate bar. It was the kind with marshmallow inside, and caramel. My mouth was watering. “Go easy with the hockey. And let’s see if you can remember to bring in that current event tomorrow,” he said as he handed me the candy bar. “Don’t tell anyone about this, okay? It’s just a little secret between you and me.” “Okay!”
I ran out of the office just in case he had only given me the candy bar so he could tie me to a chair and torture me.

4 The Present 
When I got back to the class, everybody looked at me. I guess they wanted to see if I was crying or bleeding or anything.
“Did Klutz bring you down into his tor- ture chamber?” Ryan whispered when I sat in my seat.
“Nope,” I said. “He gave me a present.”
“What did he give you?”
“I can’t tell you.”
“Oh, come on!”
“I promised I wouldn’t tell.”
“I’ll be your best friend.”
“Well, okay. I’ll show you at lunch.” During lunch, I sat at a table with my
new best friend Ryan, Michael, smarty- pants Andrea, and Emily, who cries all the time even if she isn’t hurt or anything. You should have seen their eyes bug out when I showed them the candy bar.
“Where did you get that?” Michael asked. “Your mom usually gives you carrot sticks for dessert.”
“Mr. Klutz gave it to me,” I explained.
“He’s got a whole drawer filled with them.”
“Why did he give you a candy bar?” asked Emily. I could tell she was jealous.
“Because I didn’t bring in my current event,” I explained.
“Wait a minute!” Andrea said, all angry and all. “You got sent to the principal’s office for being bad, and instead of pun- ishing you, he gave you a candy bar? That’s not fair! I brought in three current events and I didn’t get a candy bar.”
“Maybe you should try not being so perfect all the time,” I said. “You can have my carrot sticks, Andrea.”
I love getting Andrea mad. She thinks she knows everything. Whenever we have a homework assignment, she does extra work just to show Miss Daisy how smart she is and to make the rest of us look bad.
“Mr. Klutz told me he’s my pal,” I said, biting off a big piece of the chocolate bar right in front of Andrea’s face. “He said I could come in for a candy bar any time I want one.”
That last part wasn’t exactly true, but it was fun to say anyway.
“The principal should give candy to stu- dents who complete their assignments,” Andrea said. “Not to kids who don’t.”
“Yeah,” Emily sniffed. She looked like she might run out of the room crying like she usually does for no reason.
“I want to go to the principal’s office!” my best friend Ryan announced.
“Me too!” Michael agreed. “I want a candy bar!”
They all watched while I finished off the candy. I licked the extra chocolate off my fingers and rubbed my tummy, just to make sure they would know how good it was.

5 My Big Mouth 
It just so happens that I know of the per- fect way to get sent to the principal’s office. All you have to do is put a tack on the teacher’s chair. My friend Billy told me he did this once and he got sent to the principal’s office.
I waited until recess, when Andrea and Emily ran off to play with the girls. Then I told the plan to my best friend Ryan and Michael.
“That’s genius!” exclaimed my best friend Ryan.
“What if Miss Daisy gets hurt?” asked Michael.
“She won’t get hurt,” I told him. “She’ll jump up so fast that she won’t hardly feel it.”
So at the end of recess, the three of us snuck back into our classroom. It was empty. Miss Daisy was eating in the teacher’s room. Ryan pulled a tack out of the bulletin board and put it on Miss Daisy’s chair. Then we ran out to the playground just as the end-of-recess bell was ringing. When we filed back into the class, Ryan, Michael, and I could barely look at one another because we were afraid we’d burst out laughing. I could hardly wait to see the look on Miss Daisy’s face when she sat on her chair.
Well, when Miss Daisy sat down, the most amazing thing happened.
Nothing! She didn’t jump up or any- thing. She just sat there. Me and Ryan and Michael looked at one another. How could she not feel that?
“She must have buns of steel!” Ryan whispered.
“She’s like Superman.”
Then I realized that I had forgotten to tell Ryan something very important. When you put a tack on the teacher’s chair, you’re supposed to put the tack a little bit on one side. When you put it in the middle of the chair, the tack sort of . . . well . . . you know, it doesn’t have any target to hit, if you know what I mean. Miss Daisy got up to do math, not even realizing there was a tack in her butt. When she turned around to write on the chalkboard, we could see the tack was just stuck there, hanging in the middle of her backside.
Me and Ryan and Michael thought we were going to die trying to keep our- selves from laughing. It was probably the funniest thing that had ever happened in the history of the world. You should have been there!
“Excuse me,” said Andrea, raising her hand to ruin everybody’s fun like always. “Miss Daisy, I think there’s something stuck to your skirt.”
Miss Daisy turned around and pulled out the tack. “Who did this?” she de- manded.
“I did!” Ryan bragged.
“Go to the principal’s office, Ryan.”
“All right!” Ryan whispered, pumping his fist. “I’ll be back in a few minutes with a candy bar!”
“Is there anyone else who wants to go to the principal’s office?” Miss Daisy asked.
“I do!” said Michael.
“Can I go again?” I said.
“Hey, I asked first!” Michael complained. “Quiet, both of you.”
Miss Daisy pretended nothing unusual had happened and went back to her lesson, but I saw her look at her chair carefully before she sat down again.
A few minutes later Ryan came back to the classroom. Mr. Klutz was with him.
“So did he give you a candy bar?” I whispered excitedly when Ryan sat down.
“No,” Ryan whispered back. “When I told him that I thought he would give me a candy bar like he gave one to you, he got really upset. He told me he was going to call my parents and have them come in to talk about what happened. I think we’re all in big trouble.”
Oh, man! I decided that maybe it wouldn’t be such a good idea to be best friends with Ryan anymore. I should have kept my big mouth shut about the candy bar.

6 The Chocolate Party 
When I thought about it, putting a tack on Miss Daisy’s chair was a pretty dumb thing to do.
Mr. Klutz went to the front of the class. I was sure he was going to bring all of us to the torture chamber in the basement. But he didn’t look all that mad, consider- ing what we had done.
“It has come to my attention that some of the students at our school need a little extra incentive to behave and work their hardest,” Mr. Klutz said. “Do you know what the word incentive means?”
“An incentive is a reward that encour- ages a person to work harder to achieve something,” Andrea announced, all proud of herself. She thinks she knows every- thing. I hate her.
“Very good, Andrea,” said Mr. Klutz. “What sort of incentive might bring out the best work in the students of our school?”
“You could give us each a million dol- lars,” suggested Michael.
“You could make summer vacation last all year long,” I said.
“How about getting rid of homework?” asked Ryan.
Miss Daisy went to the front of the room. “Mr. Klutz can’t do those things,” she said. “But remember when all the stu- dents in our school read a million pages in books, and as a reward we turned the gym into a video-game arcade? That was quite successful. Mr. Klutz even dressed up in a gorilla suit for the evening, if I recall.”
“How about a chocolate party?” sug- gested Andrea.
“Yeah!” everybody yelled.
“Mmmm,” said Miss Daisy. “I like that idea!”
We all got very excited, because if there is one thing that just about everybody loves, it’s chocolate. Kids started shouting out things we could have at the party, like chocolate cupcakes and chocolate fudge and chocolate bun- nies and chocolate ice cream and on and on and on.
“But wait a minute,” Mr. Klutz said. “What are you going to do to earn this chocolate party?”
“We could read another million pages,” suggested Ryan.
“We did that already,” Emily said.
“How about a million math problems?” I said.
“What a wonderful idea!” Miss Daisy beamed. Ever since we taught her how to add and subtract, Miss Daisy loved math.
“Math is hard,” Ryan said. “How about a hundred math problems?”
“One million math problems,” Mr. Klutz insisted. “That’s my final offer. Take it or leave it.”
“We’ll take it!” we all yelled.
“Agreed. If the kids in our school do one million math problems, I’ll throw a party with so much chocolate, you’ll be sick for a week.”
“I’ll bring the bonbons,” Miss Daisy vol- unteered.
“Hooray!” we all yelled, except for Ryan who looked all mad.
“I’m not going to spend my free time doing math,” Ryan said. “I hate math. I wouldn’t do extra math if you kissed a pig on the lips.”
“Okay, as an added incentive,” Mr. Klutz said, “on the night of the party, I will kiss a pig on the lips. Have a nice day.”
“All right!”
What a cool, wacky guy Mr. Klutz is! He is the coolest principal in the history of the world.

7 Teacher for a Day 
The news about the big chocolate party blew through the school like a hurricane. Even kids who were allergic to chocolate wanted to go, just so they could see Mr. Klutz kiss a pig on the lips.
“Where is he going to get a pig?” Ryan asked during lunch the next day.
“He could try A.J.’s house,” Andrea said. “That’s so funny I forgot to laugh,” I said. “I’m not entirely sure that pigs have lips,” said Emily.
“Of course they have lips,” I insisted. “If they didn’t have lips, how could they whistle?”
“You know,” Ryan pointed out, “Mr. Klutz is just trying to trick us into doing lots of math problems. That’s why we’re having a chocolate party.”
“Who cares?” Michael said. “As long as we get the chocolate.”
“I think that only students who do math problems should be allowed to come to the chocolate party,” said Andrea.
“Could you possibly be any more boring?” I asked her.
As it turned out, everybody was doing math problems. The whole school started doing math problems like crazy. Even Ryan. You would have thought that Mr. Klutz was giving us gold and diamonds instead of chocolate.
“I did math problems for twenty min- utes last night,” Ryan bragged while we were waiting for Miss Daisy after recess.
“Oh, yeah?” Michael said. “Well, I did math problems for forty minutes last night.
Forty is twice as many as twenty. See? I just did another math problem right there!”
“Well I did math problems for an hour last night,” I said. “That’s fifty whole min- utes.”
“An hour is sixty minutes, dumbhead,” Andrea told me.
I was going to tell her that Sixty Minutes was a TV show my parents watch, but Mr. Klutz suddenly burst into our classroom. He told us that Miss Daisy had a dentist appointment and we would have a substitute teacher for the rest of the afternoon . . . Mr. Klutz!
We all gasped.
“You’re not a teacher!” I told him.
“I used to be a teacher,” he said. “I taught for many years before I became a principal.”
“What did you teach?” Ryan asked. “Physics,” he said.
“What’s that?” I asked.
“Is that like phys ed?” asked Michael. “Mr. Klutz, do you know that this is
second grade?” Andrea pointed out. “Physics is something high school stu- dents study.”
“Poppycock!” said Mr. Klutz. “You’re never too young to learn something new. You may find you’re smarter than you think.”
“Well, if you say so.”
“Physics is the study of motion and energy and force,” he said. “For example, if I take a blackboard eraser in one hand and a book in the other hand, and I drop them at the same time, which one will hit the floor first?”
“The eraser!” I said. “It’s smaller and lighter, so it will fall faster. Just like small, light kids run faster than big, heavy kids.”
“No, the book will hit the floor first!” insisted Ryan. “Bigger and heavier things build up more speed than little things.”
“I think they’ll both hit the floor at the same time,” said Andrea.
“Let’s do a test,” said Mr. Klutz.
He put the eraser in his left hand and a paperback book in his right hand. Then he climbed on top of Miss Daisy’s desk and held both objects up in the air. Then he dropped them.
The eraser and the book hit the ground at the exact same moment.
“I told you so,” said Andrea. I think I hate her more every day.
“According to the laws of physics, all objects fall at the exact same rate,” Mr. Klutz told us. “See? You’re learning physics in second grade!”
“Wait a minute!” said Michael. “That’s not a fair test because the eraser and the book are almost the same size and weight.”
“Yeah,” Ryan said. “Try it with different objects.”
“Okay,” Mr. Klutz said as he picked up a pencil off Miss Daisy’s desk. Then he went over to the windowsill, where Miss Daisy kept her collection of stuffed ani- mals. He picked up a giraffe that was almost as big as I am. “Would this be a fair test?” he asked.
“Yeah!” we all shouted.
“Now, which object do you think will hit the floor first?” he said as he climbed up on top of Miss Daisy’s desk again.
“The pencil!” some of us shouted.
“The giraffe!” other kids yelled.
“I think they will both hit the floor at the same instant,” said Andrea.
“Okay, let’s do a test,” said Mr. Klutz. As he raised both his arms in the air,
Mr. Klutz put his foot on a crayon that was sitting on Miss Daisy’s desk. It rolled a little. His foot slipped. He wob- bled for a moment, trying to keep his balance. Then he pitched headfirst off the desk.
“Watch out!”
Crash!
When he hit the floor, the pencil and the giraffe went flying, and Mr. Klutz’s arms and legs went in different direc- tions. It was just about the funniest thing that ever happened in the history of the world. You should have been there.
We all ran over to see if Mr. Klutz was okay. He was holding his leg and moaning.
“See?” Andrea said. “All three objects hit the ground at the same time. The pencil, the giraffe, and Mr. Klutz. So I was right.”
I hate her.

8 Mr. Klutz Puckers Up 
When Mr. Klutz got back from the hospi- tal, we were all relieved to hear that he hadn’t broken any bones. He was limp- ing, though, and told us he would have to use a cane for a week.
We were afraid he might call off the chocolate party, but he was more excited about it than ever.
Everybody in the whole school got involved doing math problems so we could win the party, even the teachers.
During library period, Mrs. Roopy asked us questions like, “If the library had a hundred books and you checked out fifty of them, how many would be left in the library?”
During music period, Mr. Hynde asked us questions like, “If the school only has ten trumpets and six kids sign up to take trumpet lessons, how many more kids can sign up for trumpet lessons?”
Miss Daisy made a big tote board so we would know how many math problems we had completed. Every day, she tallied up all the math problems on her tote board.
It wasn’t long before the school had finished a million math problems.
Andrea did the problem that put us over the top—of course. I hate her.
On the night of the chocolate party, you should have seen the gym! They had music and games, and tables were set up with chocolate chip cookies, chocolate cake, chocolate muffins, and even broc-coli covered with chocolate. Yuck!
By the end of the party, I thought I was going to throw up. It was the greatest night of my life.
At nine o’clock somebody came in with this big pig on a leash. I don’t know where they got it. The zoo, I guess. We all watched as the pig was brought over to Mr. Klutz. He wrinkled his face up and acted like he was all disgusted (Mr. Klutz, that is, not the pig).
When he bent over and kissed the pig on the lips, the whole school went crazy.
Even the pig freaked out, oinking and squealing and running around the gym until the grown-ups were able to catch it.
It was a real Kodak moment, if you ask me.

9 I Pledge Allegiance to Mr. Klutz 
“I want to congratulate all you kids,” Mr. Klutz said over the loudspeaker on Monday morning during announcements. “You did it! One million math problems. That’s quite an accomplishment! See, all you needed was a little incentive.
“This has been such a huge success that I have decided to challenge you again,” he continued. “Election Day is coming up in November. This is a very important day in America. I think every child in this school should write an essay about what it means to have elections. And if you achieve this goal by Election Day, I will climb the flag-pole in front of the school and recite the Pledge of Allegience when I get to the top.” “I hope he doesn’t hurt himself again,” said Emily.
“I’ll write my essay during recess,” said Andrea, who always does everything the second any grown-up tells her to instead of waiting as long as possible, like a normal kid.
“Couldn’t we just write one essay for the whole class?” I asked Miss Daisy. “That would be a lot easier.”
Mr. Klutz’s voice came out of the loud- speaker again. “I know some of you will ask if you can write a class essay. The answer is no. If you want to see me shinny up the flagpole, each student must write their own essay. That’s my final offer. Take it or leave it. And I’ll tell you what. When we have all the essays, I will send them to the president to read. Have a nice day.”
The thought of the president of the United States reading our personal words was pretty cool, I had to admit. Everybody finished their Election Day essays so quickly, we were done a week before Election Day. Some kids (like Andrea) even wrote two essays.
On the morning of Election Day, all the students and teachers gathered on the grass in front of the school. Mr. Klutz came out of the door. He was wearing a red, white, and blue Uncle Sam costume. He also had on sneakers and one of those harnesses that lumberjacks use to climb trees. His leg was all better and he didn’t walk with a cane anymore.
We all let out a roar when Mr. Klutz started to shinny up the flagpole. I was a little afraid that he was going to fall and break his leg or something, but he didn’t. For a principal, he was a good climber!
When he got to the top, we all recited the Pledge of Allegience with him. Then everybody let out a cheer.
When he was sliding down the flag- pole, Mr. Klutz got his foot caught in the rope that holds the flag. As he was trying to get his foot loose, his hand slipped and he fell. The next thing we knew, Mr. Klutz was hanging upside down from the flag- pole. His Uncle Sam hat fell off.
Everybody gasped.
Mr. Klutz was just hanging there, half- way up the flagpole, like he was another flag or something. It would have been the funniest thing in the history of the world if we didn’t honestly think Mr. Klutz was going to fall and land on his head.
“Help!” he shouted. “My foot is caught in the rope!”
“Quick! Get some pads from the gym for him to land on!” yelled Mrs. Roopy, the school librarian.
“Call the fire department!” yelled Mrs. Cooney, the nurse. Everybody was running around like crazy, and nobody knew what to do. It looked like Mr. Klutz would have to just hang there from the flagpole all day.
“He’ll figure a way out of this,” I told the kids in my class. “When the blood rushes to his head, it helps him think.”
But it was Miss Daisy who came up with a great idea. She went over to the bottom of the flagpole, where the rope is tied up. She took the knot out and held both ends of the rope tight. Then, slowly and carefully, she began to let out some rope and lower Mr. Klutz down the flagpole, just like he was a regular flag.
When he reached the bottom, the teachers caught him and loosened the rope from his foot. He was okay, he said, except for the rope burns on his leg.
“Hooray for Miss Daisy!” our class cheered. After he was back on the ground, Mr. Klutz got up, brushed himself off, and walked up the front steps, like it was totally normal for a principal to hang upside down from a flagpole.
Mr. Klutz is nuts!

10 Mr. Klutz Is Getting Weirder 
“Your Election Day essays were fantastic,” Mr. Klutz told our class the next morning. He had a big bandage wrapped around his head. I’m guessing he must have either crashed his skateboard again or found another flagpole to fall off.
“Thank you!” we all said.
“But I was a little surprised by the number of spelling errors I found in them,” he continued. “We need to improve the spelling at our school. So here is what I have decided to do. If you students can write out a list of one hundred thousand spelling words by Thanksgiving, I will dress up in a turkey costume and ride a pogo stick down Main Street.”
“Yayyyyyyy!” everybody hollered.
“How about one thousand spelling words?” shouted Ryan.
“One hundred thousand spelling words,” Mr. Klutz repeated. “That’s my final offer. Take it or leave it. And every word must be spelled correctly. Have a nice day.”
During lunch, I was sure that Andrea was going to start her list of spelling words just to show how smart she was. But she didn’t. She just kind of sat there, picking at her food quietly.
“You know, I’ve been thinking,” she finally said. “I’m beginning to wonder if something might be wrong with Mr. Klutz.”
“Like what?” Emily asked.
“Maybe he has some kind of a personal problem.”
“What do you mean?” Michael asked. “Mr. Klutz is a cool guy. Would you rather have a boring principal?”
“My mother is a psychologist,” Andrea said, “and she says that people sometimes do weird things for reasons that are buried deep within their mind.”
“What does that mean?” I asked.
“It means she thinks Mr. Klutz is nuts,” said Michael.
“I didn’t say that,” Andrea went on. “All I’m saying is that maybe he didn’t want to climb up the flagpole. Maybe he doesn’t want to put on a turkey costume. Maybe he just wants people to like him, and the only way he knows to show that is to do nutty things. Maybe he’s a sad, unhappy man. Maybe all he wants is a hug or something.”
“That’s the saddest story I ever heard!” Emily said. Then she started sobbing.
Me, Ryan, and Michael looked at one another. We all rolled our eyes up in our heads.
“Mr. Klutz is cool,” Ryan said. “You’re the one who has some kind of a personal problem, Andrea.”
“Maybe Mr. Klutz is nuts,” I said. “In fact, maybe he’s not a principal at all. Did you ever think of that? Maybe Mr. Klutz escaped from a home for the crim- inally insane and he’s just pretending to be a principal. Maybe our real principal is tied up to a chair in the dungeon down in the basement. My friend Billy told me—”
“There is no dungeon down in the basement,” Emily insisted. “That’s just one of those urban legends.”
“Sure, that’s just what he wants us to believe!” I told Emily. “He doesn’t want us to know our real principal is tied up to a chair down there. He probably tortures him during summer vacation.”
“I think you guys are nuts,” Emily said.
“I’m worried about Mr. Klutz,” Andrea said, biting her fingernails.

11 The Last Straw 
I don’t know if all that mumbo jumbo Andrea said was true or not. But I had to admit, Mr. Klutz was acting weirder and weirder.
After we finished the list of a hundred thousand spelling words and he pogo sticked down Main Street in a turkey costume, he offered to paint his bald head orange if our school got the highest reading score in the county. We did, and he came into school the next day with an orange head.
Then he offered to let every kid in the school shoot a Ping-Pong ball at him if we collected enough box tops to buy new computers for the school media center. We did that, too.
It was fun shooting Ping-Pong balls at Mr. Klutz, but even I was beginning to worry that there was something trou- bling him.
And then came the day when it was obvious to everybody that Mr. Klutz had gone off the deep end. It was at the end of morning announcements. Miss Daisy had stepped out of the room for a minute.
“Boys and girls,” Mr. Klutz said over the loudspeaker, “winter vacation is coming up. If the students at our school read with their parents for one million minutes before school lets out, I will bungee-jump off the roof of the school dressed as Santa Claus!”
Me and Ryan and Emily and Andrea and Michael all looked at one another.
“That’s the last straw!” Andrea said. “There are plenty of straws,” I told her.
“Do you want me to get you one?”
“She means we can’t take this anymore,”
Ryan told me.
“Is that what the last straw means?” I asked. “I always wondered what the last straw meant.”
“At first I thought Mr. Klutz was just a funny guy,” Andrea said seriously. “And he is. But he’s also a deeply disturbed man. We’ve got to do something. If he keeps going like this, he might hurt himself again. Or even worse. If we don’t stop him and something terrible happens, it would be our fault.”
“I never thought of it that way,” I said.
“What can we do?” Emily asked. “We’re just kids.”
“We have to have an intervention,” Andrea said.
“What’s that?” Ryan asked.
“It’s when you sit down and tell some- body they have a problem,” Andrea explained. “You force them to do some- thing about it. My mother has to do inter- ventions all the time.”
“I’m not telling Mr. Klutz he has a prob- lem,” Ryan said.
“Me neither,” agreed Michael.
“A.J., you started this whole thing,” Andrea told me.
“I did not!”
“Sure you did. You were the one who gave him the idea to give out incentives for learning in the first place.”
“That’s true,” the others agreed, look- ing at me like I was a criminal or some- thing.
“All I did was hit a puck into Annette,” I said.
“A.J., you’ve got to tell Mr. Klutz that if he bungee-jumps off the roof, we’re not going to read one minute with our par- ents,” Andrea said. “Two can play at this game. If he’s going to do crazy things, we won’t read any more books. We won’t spell any more words. We won’t do any more math problems. We won’t learn anything.”
I couldn’t believe I was hearing this from Andrea. Her idea of having fun is to read the dictionary during recess. If she was willing to give up learning, she must be really serious about Mr. Klutz and his problems.
“But if we stop learning stuff,” I protested, “we’ll get dumber.”
“In your case,” Andrea told me, “that would be impossible.”

12 A Hard Bargain 
That afternoon we talked Miss Daisy into letting us go to Mr. Klutz’s office for a meeting.
“We need to speak with Mr. Klutz,” Andrea told the school secretary. “It’s very important.”
“It’s a matter of life and death,” Ryan said.
The secretary let us in. Mr. Klutz wasn’t hanging from the ceiling or anything. He had on boxing gloves and he was punch- ing his punching bag.
“May I help you kids?” he asked.
“Go ahead, A.J.,” Andrea said, giving me a shove from behind.
“Mr. Klutz,” I told him, “we have come to make a deal with you.”
“Really? What kind of deal?”
“We decided that we will read a million minutes with our parents, but only if you don’t jump off the roof.”
“Only if I don’t jump off the roof?” he said, looking puzzled. “But I was going to jump off the roof as an incentive to encourage you to read with your parents at night.”
“Well, we’re going to read with our par- ents at night as an incentive to make you not jump off the roof.”
“This is highly unusual,” Mr. Klutz said. “I thought the principal should offer the students incentives, not the other way around.”
“Your incentives have been getting more and more dangerous,” Andrea told him. “We’re afraid that you might get killed trying to help us learn.”
“Yeah, and if you die, we’ll feel guilty,” I added.
“Now, let me get this straight,” Mr. Klutz said. “I offered to jump off the roof if you read a million minutes at night with your parents. But you are saying you will only read a million minutes with your parents if I don’t jump off the roof. Correct?”
“That’s right,” we said.
“What if I jumped off the basketball backboard in the gym into a swimming pool filled with foam blocks?” Mr. Klutz asked. “Would that be okay?”
“No!” we all said.
“Can I wear a suit made of bubble wrap and jump off the stage in the auditorium?”
“No!”
“No jumping off anything,” Andrea insisted. “Not if you want us to read or write or do math. That’s our final offer. Take it or leave it.”
“You drive a hard bargain.” Mr. Klutz sighed. “Okay, I won’t jump.”
“Have a nice day!” we all said.

13 Poor Mr. Klutz 
The kids in the other grades were disap- pointed when they heard that Mr. Klutz had changed his mind about bungee- jumping off the roof of the school. Some of them were even mad at us for stopping him.
But when it was announced that there would be a field trip to Water World if we reached our goal instead, they stopped being mad. Water World is probably the coolest water park in California.
A few days before vacation, the school still hadn’t reached our goal of a million minutes of reading with our parents. It looked like we were not going to make it in time.
Then Mr. Klutz got on the loud- speaker during morning announcements. “Students, there are three more nights to go before vacation,” he told us. “I hate to do this, but if you don’t reach your goal by Friday, the field trip to Water World will be called off and I will have no choice but to jump off the roof. Have a nice day.”
After hearing that, everybody started reading with their parents like crazy. Even the sixth graders, who say that reading isn’t cool. Everybody wanted to go to Water World. We reached a million minutes the day before school let out for vacation.
The field trip to Water World was awe- some! They had about a hundred giant water slides, and in some of them you slid in the dark with laser beams shoot- ing all over the place. We got to eat as much pizza and ice cream as we wanted.
They also had one of those giant, inflatable moon bounce thingies where you jump around like crazy inside it. After water sliding, eating all that junk food, and bouncing in the moon bounce, I thought I was going to throw up. It was the greatest day of my life.
Me and Ryan and Emily and Andrea and Michael went looking for Mr. Klutz to thank him. We found him standing next to the moon bounce thingy.
“Great party!” I told Mr. Klutz, and we all gave him a big hug. “If you ask me, you’re the greatest principal in the his- tory of the world.”
“Thanks, A.J.!”
“See, you didn’t need to bungee-jump off the school to make us learn,” Andrea said.
“I guess not,” Mr. Klutz said. He was looking up at the moon bounce. “But I was just thinking, if we brought one of these moon bounce things out to the front of the school, and I went up on the roof—”
“No!” we all yelled.
“I wouldn’t even need a bungee cord—” “No!”
“It’s pretty soft—”
“No!”
I think it’s going to be very hard work helping Mr. Klutz get over this need he has to do nutty things. Maybe by June, if the whole school works together, we might be able to cure him.
But it won’t be easy.

About the Author and the Illustrator 
DAN GUTMAN
has written many weird books for kids. Dan lives in New Jersey (a very weird place) with his weird wife and two weird children. You can visit him on his weird website at
www.dangutman.com
JIM PAILLOT is a talented but weird illustrator who lives in Arizona. He also has a weird wife and two weird children. Isn’t that weird? You can visit him on his weird website at
www.jimpaillot.com
Visit www.AuthorTracker.com for exclusive information on your favorite HarperCollins author.

Credits
Typography by Nicole de las Heras
Cover art © 2004 by Jim Paillot
Cover © 2004 by HarperCollins Publishers Inc.

Cover 

Copyright
MY WEIRD SCHOOL #2: MR. KLUTZ IS NUTS!. Text copyright © 2004 by Dan Gutman. Illustrations copyright © 2004 by Jim Paillot. All rights reserved under International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By payment of the required fees, you have been granted the non-exclusive, nontransferable right to access and read the text of this e-book on-screen. No part of this text may be reproduced, transmitted, down-loaded, decompiled, reverse engineered, or stored in or introduced into any information storage and retrieval system, in any form or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereinafter invented, without the express written permission of HarperCollins e-books.
Adobe Acrobat eBook Reader September 2008 ISBN 978-0-06-177827-8
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

About the Publisher
Australia
HarperCollins Publishers (Australia) Pty. Ltd. 25 Ryde Road (PO Box 321)
Pymble, NSW 2073, Australia http://www.harpercollinsebooks.com.au
Canada
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd.
55 Avenue Road, Suite 2900 Toronto, ON, M5R, 3L2, Canada http://www.harpercollinsebooks.ca
New Zealand
HarperCollinsPublishers (New Zealand) Limited P.O. Box 1
Auckland, New Zealand http://www.harpercollins.co.nz
United Kingdom
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd.
77-85 Fulham Palace Road
London, W6 8JB, UK http://www.harpercollinsebooks.co.uk
United States
HarperCollins Publishers Inc.
10 East 53rd Street
New York, NY 10022 http://www.harpercollinsebooks.com
